---
layout: post
title: Effective Modern C++:multi-threading
description: "Some tricks for modern C++"
tags: [C++]
categories: [Tech, Program]

---

### <center>Traditional Thread<center>

C++ 11 supports multi-threading, for which we previously used pthread or boost. Standard C++ 11's threading is based on boost::thread, now it's cross platform and no dependency needed.

```c++
#include <thread>
#include <iostream>
int testThread()
{
	std::cout << "I am a seperate thread...";
}
void main()
{
	std::thread newThread(testThread);//now it's running
        //do something else .... //
	newThread.join();//before the ending, newThread should join
        return;
}
```

The code is simple, the thread function will run right after the std::thread is declared.


<!-- more -->

**The newThread must join the main thread before the end of the program, "join" means the main thread will wait for the newThread to be finished.**

The std::thread has a obvious drawback: it is simply a thread, **it can not return any value**. So if we want to get something from a thread, we can only use some global variable to exchange the result. Even we use global variable to pass result, **we still don't know when the result is ready**, then we need one more variable as signal variable to record the status, that's not acceptable.

### <center>Prefer std::async to std::thread

One solution C++ 11 provides is the task-based std::async, it's even simpler:

```c++
#include <future>
#include <iostream>
#include <chrono>
int testThread()
{
	std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(3));
	std::cout << "slept for 3 second\n";
	return 1;
}
void main()
{
	auto result = std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);
        //do something else//
        return;
}
```

Just declare the std::async like the std::thread, done.

You don't need to care anything else, the std::async will take care of everything, actually, it is managing the threads for you.

But there are a lot of tricks you need to know:

**<center>1, std::async must be assigned to a variable</center>**

This is different from std::thread, if we only declare it like:

```c++
std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);//Wrong!
```

It doesn't work, the testThread will run, but the program will be blocked and waits until the testThread finished. What we want is let it run in a separate thread, parallel.

So the correct way will be:

```c++
auto result = std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);//Good
```

the result's type is actually ***std::future<int\>***, we use ***auto*** for conveniency. ***int*** is the returned type of testThread function. So if it returns something else, for example void, the returned type will be ***std::future<void\>***.

**<center>2, Specify launch::async</center>**

std::async can launch in two modes, one is launch::deferred and the other is launch::async. 

lauch::deferred is rarely used, it means the task testThread will only be launched when result.get() or result.wait() is called.

**lauch::async is mostly used, it means the task testThread will immediately  run and it will be forced to run in another thread.**

**<center>3, get the result</center>**

As the beginning of this blog described, we don't know when the result is ready when using std::thread. 

For std::async, we use ***result.get()*** to get the result, and the get() will wait for the thread to finish and return the value:

```c++
int testThread()
{
	std::this_thread::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(3));
	std::cout << "slept for 3 second\n";
	return 1;
}
void main()
{
	auto result = std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);
        int returnedValue = result.get();//wait for 3 seconds.
        return;
}
```

In the above code block, **the *result.get()* will wait until the testThread finished computing** and get the returned value. 

If we don't call *result.get()* but do some other work:

```c++
auto result = std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);
//do something else for longer than 3 seconds
int returnedValue = result.get();
```

The *result.get()* will  return the value immediately, because **the testThread is already done and the returned value is already stored in the variable *result***, you can use the value any time you want.

**<center>4,result.get() can only be called once</center>**

Inside ***result.get()***, it is actually calling ***result.wait()*** and **move()**. Once it is called, the returned value of testThread is moved out and no longer valid, we can call ***result.valid()*** to check:

```c++
auto result = std::async(std::launch::async, testThread);
//do something here
if(result.valid())//If you don't know get() is already called
{
	int returnedValue = result.get();    
}
```

Normally we don't need to check the result.valid(), the best way to go is copying the returned value to another variable, in the above case ***int returnedValue***.





